
The State pattern is closely related to the concept of a Finite-State Machine.

The main idea is that, at any given moment, there’s a finite number of states 
which a program can be in. Within any unique state, the program behaves differently, 
and the program can be switched from one state to another instantaneously. 

However, depending on a current state, the program may or may not switch to 
certain other states. These switching rules, called transitions, are also finite 
and predetermined.

Intent
--------------------------------
State is a behavioral design pattern that lets an object alter its behavior when its 
internal state changes. It appears as if the object changed its class.

State Machine 
--------------------------------
The State pattern suggests that you create new classes for all possible 
states of an object and extract all state-specific behaviors into these classes.

Instead of implementing all behaviors on its own, 
the original object, called context, stores a reference to one 
of the state objects that represents its current state, 
and delegates all the state-related work to that object.

To transition the context into another state, replace the active state object 
with another object that represents that new state. 
This is possible only if all state classes follow the same interface and 
the context itself works with these objects through that interface.

This structure may look similar to the Strategy pattern, 
but there’s one key difference. In the State pattern, 
the particular states may be aware of each other and initiate 
transitions from one state to another, whereas strategies almost never know about each other.


Usage examples:
-------------------------------------
The State pattern is commonly used in C# to convert massive switch-base state machines into the objects.

Identification: 
-------------------------------------
State pattern can be recognized by methods that change their behavior depending on the objects’ state, controlled externally.



How to Implement
--------------------------------------------
    - Decide what class will act as the context. It could be an existing class which already has the state-dependent code; or a new class, if the state-specific code is distributed across multiple classes.
    - Declare the state interface. Although it may mirror all the methods declared in the context, aim only for those that may contain state-specific behavior.
    For every actual state, create a class that derives from the state interface. Then go over the methods of the context and extract all code related to that state into your newly created class.

    While moving the code to the state class, you might discover that it depends on private members of the context. There are several workarounds:
        Make these fields or methods public.
        Turn the behavior you’re extracting into a public method in the context and call it from the state class. This way is ugly but quick, and you can always fix it later.
        Nest the state classes into the context class, but only if your programming language supports nesting classes.

    In the context class, add a reference field of the state interface type and a public setter that allows overriding the value of that field.

    Go over the method of the context again and replace empty state conditionals with calls to corresponding methods of the state object.

    To switch the state of the context, create an instance of one of the state classes and pass it to the context. You can do this within the context itself, or in various states, or in the client. Wherever this is done, the class becomes dependent on the concrete state class that it instantiates.

Pros and Cons

    Single Responsibility Principle. Organize the code related to particular states into separate classes.
    Open/Closed Principle. Introduce new states without changing existing state classes or the context.
    Simplify the code of the context by eliminating bulky state machine conditionals.

    Applying the pattern can be overkill if a state machine has only a few states or rarely changes.

Relations with Other Patterns

    Bridge, State, Strategy (and to some degree Adapter) have very similar structures. Indeed, all of these patterns are based on composition, which is delegating work to other objects. However, they all solve different problems. A pattern isn’t just a recipe for structuring your code in a specific way. It can also communicate to other developers the problem the pattern solves.

    State can be considered as an extension of Strategy. Both patterns are based on composition: they change the behavior of the context by delegating some work to helper objects. Strategy makes these objects completely independent and unaware of each other. However, State doesn’t restrict dependencies between concrete states, letting them alter the state of the context at will.

